Query: Give me Satya’s view on moving legacy cores to cloud and open a PoC task.
Role: CEO

Context:
Super excited to see something that I'm learning
to appreciate and starting to use more often, as well.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, it's great to see how the vision really
comes to life with blending Windows from the logon screen
into the Cloud PC
as well as cross-platform, as you said with the Windows app.
It's great to see and hear your favorite feature, as well.
PAVAN: Yeah. Actually, the GPU SKUs are another fantastic
thing. A relatively thin and light machine,
you are backed by GPU SKUs in the cloud.
You can start running Blender and these workloads that
otherwise a PC in that class would not be able to do.
It's kind of mind bending. It's phenomenal.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, it is.
What is even more cool in my opinion
is that the cloud computing part, moving to buying compute

It's kind of mind bending. It's phenomenal.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, it is.
What is even more cool in my opinion
is that the cloud computing part, moving to buying compute
versus, yeah... PAVAN: The device pattern changes.
CHRISTIAAN: Exactly.
The subscription parts where you pay for your
on-demand kind of compute part, with GPU as an example.
It's just amazing.
And that's what the future is in my opinion, too.
PAVAN: Agree.
CHRISTIAAN: So, moving a little bit to the hardware part
of Windows environment and Windows in the Cloud and such,
over the last 20 years, CPU, RAM,
all those kind of way of doing the silicon
and the motherboards and all those things coming together
at an SOC haven't been changed that much.
And now with NPU and other things coming along

But first I'll go.
So, Windows 365, AVD are going skyrocket
with customer adoption, and in the companies,
like, very strong feeling of how to move to the cloud
is happening with Windows, as well.
So, let me go first.
Two features that I'm very excited about is Windows 365 Boot
to boot straight into a Cloud PC
from the Windows 11 logon screen,
as well as Azure Virtual Desktop,
the new autoscaling feature.
So, now I want to ask you,
what's your favorite set of features?
[Pavan laughing]
PAVAN: That's a bit of a tricky one.
I feel like, first, it's been an amazing learning journey
with you, and I appreciate internal to our teams,
I get to be on self first and learn and try
and look at all the new features
you guys have in the pipeline.
First, I agree with you on both

handwritten docs. You can OCR them, put them into this Copilot. Engineers can ask it
anything from how to make a car run faster or something super specific about some
emissions output. And so, these are all the examples.
In fact, right after my keynote, you’re going to hear from Lance from Blackrock in
conversation with Judson on what they’re doing with Aladdin and Azure. It’s really an
exciting work that they’re doing, so it’ll be great to listen to Lance. These are some
examples on how the stack is being used today, and we’re just getting started. Adding, in
fact, capabilities across every layer of the tech stack here, starting right at the
infrastructure layer. We continue to build out Azure as the world’s computer. Over the

Answer:
Agent stopped due to iteration limit or time limit.

Footnotes:
1. [ignite_surface_caption.txt](https://internal/Product/ignite_surface_caption.txt)
2. [linkedin_post1.txt](https://internal/CEO/linkedin_post1.txt)

Feedback: ✅
Score: 0.85
