CHRISTIAAN BRINKHOFF: Hi, folks.
Welcome to another "Windows in the Cloud" episode.
This time a very special one as I'm pumped to be joined
by Pavan Davuluri, a long-term Microsoft veteran
and now corporate vice president for Windows, Surveys,
Mixed Reality, and Windows Cloud.
We will be talking about Windows Cloud and how AI
and silicon play an important role as part of our future.
So let's get started.
[Show theme music]
Hey! Welcome, Pavan. I'm super excited.
I'm pumped that you are here
in this Microsoft Redmond studio.
And can you tell a little bit to the audience who you are?
We have been partnering over the last period of time
on several Windows Cloud product integrations
with Windows 365.
PAVAN DAVULURI: Absolutely. CHRISTIAAN: So, can you tell
a little bit more about yourself?
PAVAN: For sure. Yeah.
First of all, thank you for having me, Christiaan.
I appreciate being here
and getting a moment with you today.
My journey at Microsoft has been an amazing one.
I joined the company as a college hire.
I was in the business of building PC peripheral products
back then, if you can believe it--
mice and keyboards and game controllers and webcams.
CHRISTIAAN: That's cool. PAVAN: And I spent then
about 10 years or so in the Surface organization.
I led the development efforts for a variety
of generational devices back then.
And then, for the last 3 or 4 years
or so, I've been working in silicon
and platform engineering inside the Windows organization
prior to taking on the Windows and devices role.
I am grateful to be here.
It's been an incredible journey,
and I feel like we have an incredible team
and incredible vision, mission ahead of us and
we have the opportunity to do this in an amazing company.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, that's great.
We went through a great journey together.
And it's really cool that you have been part
of that silicon part, the part that you don't always see
that's there, but it is. PAVAN: Yeah.
It's kind of underneath the hood. Yeah.
CHRISTIAAN: So before we go into that cool part of the
conversation, let's start with an icebreaker.
And I wanted to know who's your favorite person
or hero in your life.
Could be a fictional person or a real person.
PAVAN: A superhero maybe? CHRISTIAAN: Superhero.
So I'll start with mine first.
I'm always get compared with Batman
as I'm always there but not always visible.
So I'm curious: What's yours.
[Pavan laughing]
PAVAN: So, okay, you picked Batman.
I want to then say I feel like I should be
in the DC universe at some level, and then my instinct
would be to say something like Wonder Woman,
honestly, their marquee character.
But these days, I just have to go with Taylor Swift.
I feel like she's holding up the economy,
generating a wave of energy across the world.
Certainly superhero status, from what I can see.
CHRISTIAAN: Ah, that's great.
I'm not going to ask you your favorite song.
PAVAN: Thank you. CHRISTIAAN: So, let's go to the next...
PAVAN: I may not qualify beyond that, so thank you.
[pair laughing]
CHRISTIAAN: So, AI is everywhere these days.
The Copilot and everything.
And it's coming in Windows and everything.
Can you shed some light on how AI becomes part
of our future of Windows, Windows Cloud,
and other products that you're leading?
PAVAN: Yeah. I think AI, from what we can see across the
board and certainly within the company,
I think AI is a tidal wave of a technology change for us.
Very similar to eras of change we saw with PC
and mobile, cloud, and now computing moving
into the world of AI for sure.
For us at Microsoft, I think the marquee AI experience
for us is Copilot.
And in Windows, very much
like the Start button is the entry into Windows,
for me, Copilot is your entry point
into the world of AI on your PC.
And I think work we are doing both on the device side
and the cloud side is really to enhance
what that AI experience can look like
and what those Copilot capabilities can look like
on Windows devices, both in the cloud and on the edge.
CHRISTIAAN: That's pretty cool.
So, over the last 10 years, the strategy
in Microsoft under such as leadership really changed,
and the move to Cloud is stronger than ever before
with AI and everything coming together.
How have you seen that shift in culture
and strategy being a pivot or an important role
in terms of the shift of Windows moving to the cloud?
PAVAN: Sure.
One of the things that people talk about, Christiaan,
is this notion that culture eats strategy for breakfast.
And I think that has been particularly true
for us at Microsoft in the last 10 years or so.
One of the ideas that has really helped us move forward,
I think, is this notion as I just talked about
around growth mindset.
And for us, with growth mindset, it has given us the space
to be curious, to learn, to iterate, to fail.
And I think that kind of environment in itself allows
for innovation and taking risks
and coming up with new bold ideas.
And a lot of the work, quite frankly,
your organization is doing in my mind is a product
of the fact that we have that kind of attitude
to learn, to grow, obsessed with our customers,
and then drive innovation and deliver real value.
So I think it's happening. It's exciting to see.
CHRISTIAAN: That's awesome, you acknowledging that the
partnership has been super strong between you, your team,
even before you came in the business unit, onboard, leading
this big charter that I just mentioned, too.
How do you compare other products or services
in Microsoft going through a similar transition
from the past as well to the future of cloud
and software as a service in relationship to Windows 365?
PAVAN: It's a great question.
I think one of the best patterns we have within the company
is the transition that happened in Office for us,
where we had Office on prem, alone, as a product.
And today, we have a diverse spectrum
of options, from Office on prem through being able
to deliver Microsoft 365 as a collective solution
for a class of customers.
And I think we see this opportunity with Windows, as well,
where we have great Windows devices coming to market,
we're driving innovation in the ecosystem,
but we also have the opportunity
to have delivered Windows experiences to the cloud
and meet customers where they're at.
Especially when you think about the diversity
of the ecosystem ahead of us, I think we have an opportunity
to deliver Windows in a variety
of different options going forward.
CHRISTIAAN: That's amazing. And I hear that from customers,
as well. They see that reflection, too.
And what we really feel with customers is that
they see Windows 365 and they are super excited about it.
And then, they expand, as well, to more use cases and such.
That's really cool.
And the reflection point with Office
and other products in Microsoft:
I really feel that that's happening right now, too.
PAVAN: That it is. It's kind of exciting.
It's kind of exciting. And to your point,
it's being driven by customer demand,
which is also super empowering,
I think, for us, as well. CHRISTIAAN: Exactly.
More and more customers are looking
for unification and simplification.
And this is really an example of that.
PAVAN: That's right. Our AVD and 365 propositions.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah.
And that's a good segue in the next question
that I want to ask you.
But first I'll go.
So, Windows 365, AVD are going skyrocket
with customer adoption, and in the companies,
like, very strong feeling of how to move to the cloud
is happening with Windows, as well.
So, let me go first.
Two features that I'm very excited about is Windows 365 Boot
to boot straight into a Cloud PC
from the Windows 11 logon screen,
as well as Azure Virtual Desktop,
the new autoscaling feature.
So, now I want to ask you,
what's your favorite set of features?
[Pavan laughing]
PAVAN: That's a bit of a tricky one.
I feel like, first, it's been an amazing learning journey
with you, and I appreciate internal to our teams,
I get to be on self first and learn and try
and look at all the new features
you guys have in the pipeline.
First, I agree with you on both
those features being great ones, and I love them, as well.
Especially now, I feel like with my new machines,
I enjoy Windows Boot and Windows Switch every day.
The integration of Windows 365 into Windows 11
that we're seeing, especially in the last
2023 window of time, fantastic.
I also love most recently the work we've done
on the Windows app and the fact that Windows app now
is available on Windows, on web, Mac, other platforms.
Super excited to see something that I'm learning
to appreciate and starting to use more often, as well.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, it's great to see how the vision really
comes to life with blending Windows from the logon screen
into the Cloud PC
as well as cross-platform, as you said with the Windows app.
It's great to see and hear your favorite feature, as well.
PAVAN: Yeah. Actually, the GPU SKUs are another fantastic
thing. A relatively thin and light machine,
you are backed by GPU SKUs in the cloud.
You can start running Blender and these workloads that
otherwise a PC in that class would not be able to do.
It's kind of mind bending. It's phenomenal.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah, it is.
What is even more cool in my opinion
is that the cloud computing part, moving to buying compute
versus, yeah... PAVAN: The device pattern changes.
CHRISTIAAN: Exactly.
The subscription parts where you pay for your
on-demand kind of compute part, with GPU as an example.
It's just amazing.
And that's what the future is in my opinion, too.
PAVAN: Agree.
CHRISTIAAN: So, moving a little bit to the hardware part
of Windows environment and Windows in the Cloud and such,
over the last 20 years, CPU, RAM,
all those kind of way of doing the silicon
and the motherboards and all those things coming together
at an SOC haven't been changed that much.
And now with NPU and other things coming along
and innovation there, can you shed some light how
that will change the future of Windows streaming
and Windows Cloud and AI?
PAVAN: Yeah. I think that's a great question, Christiaan.
I think you're right.
In the last couple years, with the advent of AI
and AI spanning both the cloud and the client,
one of the places of innovation we're seeing
in the Windows silicon platform
and ecosystem space is the rise of neural engines.
And I think neural engines give us the ability
to run AI models--inference, specifically--
at a level of power and performance that you don't have
through other infrastructures like CPUs
and GPUs alone in themselves.
And so we in Windows are busy at work putting infrastructure
in place to take advantage of the power of these NPUs
and having developers and developers create platforms
and applications that take advantage
of these AI capabilities on the edge.
One of the other big things we're investing
in is idea-hybrid AI loop pattern.
And the reason why this is magical for us,
it takes advantage of both compute in the cloud
as well as compute locally.
Compute locally is important for things
like responsiveness, enhanced privacy, being able
to provide low-latency-type responses.
And then, you take advantage of compute in the cloud,
where you house massive data sets,
you run cross-platform infrastructure,
large-scale inference.
And with the hybrid AI loop, we're able
to bring the best of both worlds together.
And for us, with Windows 365,
we can now deliver these Copilots
and these hybrid capabilities both on local devices
as well as through Windows 365,
and that to me is super exciting.
CHRISTIAAN: It's really cool to hear that,
and it's super cool, as well,
to hear your passion in this space
and your experience really comes to its life here
as a leader and your past experiences, too.
PAVAN: It's a beautiful synergy, I think, of
where our past investments are going to
come into play for our future bets.
CHRISTIAAN: Exactly.
So, the device still remains very important
for that local experience, but the data centers
that we have with Azure are also important.
So, blending those with hybrid AI
and everything is super exciting.
PAVAN: It's kind of exciting. I agree.
CHRISTIAAN: Yeah. So, I will have you back
at some point to do an update there...
PAVAN: I would love to. CHRISTIAAN: ...on where we are.
So before we close, any holiday plans for you?
Like, do you have some plans with your family?
Christmas plans or something like that?
PAVAN: Yes.
Last couple months, as you can imagine,
have been a little intense,
so certainly going to get a few minutes.
I'm going to spend some time with family,
and I encourage you and all of you all to get a chance
to get a break over the holidays, if you can, of course.
CHRISTIAAN: Great. So how can people stay in touch with you?
PAVAN: I would suggest folks just use LinkedIn for now.
It's a great way for me to listen, learn, I think,
and just see how people are feeling
with our products and experiences.
So, LinkedIn is a great way to find me.
CHRISTIAAN: Okay. Great.
Thanks again for being the last guest of 2023.
PAVAN: Thank you. CHRISTIAAN: And I want to wish
you, everyone watching, a happy holidays
and the best for 2024.
See you back next year as we have a very special episode
about Windows 365 and Intune Suite coming up.
So, happy holidays.
